title: "SVIP Official : SVIP Class of 2015 Arrives"
date: 2014-09-23 10:46:15
tags: moving, San Francisco, new house, SVIP
author: SVIP Offical
layout: post
---

After months of anticipation, the SVIP class of 2015 has landed in San Francisco. They've settled in at their new jobs, immersed themselves in city culture and if you ask any one of them, I am sure they will attest that they are quite literally, living the dream.

<!-- more -->

For those of you who are wondering how exactly to start a new life in the tech capital of the world, it's not nearly as daunting as it seems. With visas and insurance in the bag before everyone arrived and an induction day full of glorious admin including setting up bank accounts and obtaining social security numbers, there has been plenty of time for the fun stuff.  

On their second day stateside, we had our first 'Meet an Entrepreneur' session with Mark Dwight, the founder of Rickshaw Bagworks. Contrary to popular belief, real physical things are also made in San Francisco, not just software. After a tour of the micro-factory, the SVIPers jumped straight into asking Mark about some of the realities of entrepreneurship. Everyone was then let loose in Rickshaw's customizable bag studio to design their own SVIP-branded bags to compliment the rest of the snazzy SVIP stash. The designs ranged from a classy navy with white trim to a garish mixture of check and camo-effect - but either way the SVIPers will now be hard to miss when gallivanting around San Francisco.

Then it was back to SVIP HQ for a few welcome drinks. An essential part of any SVIPers American education is of course 'Flipcup' - a drinking game that is near identical to the British 'Boatrace', but adds in a fiendishly tricky step where you have to flip your cup upside down with one finger before your teammate can start theirs. As the night wore on, the SVIPers attitude to the local beverages predictably changed from "What is this stuff? This isn't like they make it back home" to "Yeah, I'll have another one of those if that's all you've got" to "Hmm, this stuff isn't half bad". 

In fact, adjusting to American beer has been the least of the culture shocks that the SVIPs have experienced during their first few weeks in Silicon Valley. To quote SVIPer Olly Freeman *"During the first few days we were constantly amused by the fact that instead of billboards advertising some new perfume, a mobile phone tariff, or anything else mundanely generic like they do at home, in San Francisco almost all of the billboards are advertising some bizarrely specific tech solution. I'm pretty sure that the advert itself is only legible, let alone applicable for about 0.01% of the national population, but in San Francisco it's completely normal because everything revolves around the tech industry"*. Others have reported offices where it's 'normal' to spend the working day in your socks, discussions with the CEO held over a game of table-tennis, and weekly meetings that are kick-started with everyone telling their best joke. Welcome to the tech capital of the world. 

This year, we set the SVIPers up with accommodation at *StartupHouse* for their first month: a "shared-desk workspace for entrepreneurs" with sleeping space on the upper floors. Basically, it's a hacker house with a capacity of about 50, which has provided the SVIPers the opportunity to get to know each other and meet loads of current and aspiring entrepreneurs while they find their feet in Silicon Valley, not to mention the chance to attend some really cool events, including one hosted by the CEO of the Unity, the famous gaming engine. That certainly got a few pulses racing (typical nerds, eh?)!

If this all sounds too good to be true, here's a few parting words of wisdom from SVIP's founder Michael Hughes: *"From the outside, Silicon Valley looks a little like how Hogwarts must look to the average Muggle - technological wizardry with lots of lights and colors that magically yields gold. In some ways, the dirty little secret is that there is a little more 'throwing spaghetti against a wall and seeing what sticks' than deep strategic insight than many of us like to admit. The true wizardry here is the business ecosystem and supporting culture that encourages many, many people to try new ideas, fail, learn and try again and again so companies are born and die quickly yielding a broiling entrepreneurial innovation soup of natural selection that occasionally spits out a spectacular winner. This is the lesson we are trying to get across to the SVIPs - start with something you care about, jump in, move fast, innovate, keep trying - don't worry too much about failing - it is too easy to sit on the sidelines waiting for the 'perfect' idea - come on in, the soup's lovely!"*

And that's about it from the SVIP blog for this week. Next week we will feature a guest blog by new SVIPer Jamie Henson, who is promising to give the inside scoop on his first month Stateside, so be sure to tune in.

And finally, if the idea of moving to Silicon Valley to learn its magical ways is something that you are interested in, remember that applications for the SVIP Class of 2016 will open later this year. Be the first to know by liking Silicon Valley Internship Program on Facebook and following us on twitter @SVIPUK.
